---
title: "Including limb-on-limb holonomic constraints in predictive simulation allows replicating athletes backflip technique"
collection: publications
category: manuscript
permalink: /publication/2025-05-15-backflip
excerpt: 'The present study aimed to generate optimal techniques for the backward somersault by considering hand-on-shank contact forces through holonomic constraints and the projected dynamics during the tuck phase of a backward somersault. A secondary objective was to evaluate the impact of considering this hand-on-shank contact on the optimal acrobatic strategy generated. '
date: 2025-05-15
venue: 'Multibody System Dynamics'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11044-025-10082-0'
bibtexurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex_backflip.bib'
citation: 'Farr, A., Charbonneau, E., Begon, M., & Puchaud, P. (2025). Including limb-on-limb holonomic constraints in predictive simulation allows replicating athletes backflip technique. <i>Multibody System Dynamics</i>, 1-31.'
---

In predictive simulations of human movements, contact interactions between limbs are often neglected to reduce modeling complexity. However, limb-on-limb contacts are inherent to certain movements, such as the backward tuck somersault, where athletes grasp their shanks with their hands while rotating in the air. In the present study, we introduced limb-on-limb holonomic constraints into an optimal control problem to simulate more realistic techniques of backward tuck somersault. It was simulated using a planar digital twin comprising eight degrees of freedom and was divided into five phases: propulsion, pre-tuck flight, tuck, post-tuck flight, and landing. We modeled the limb-on-limb interaction during the tuck phase in three ways: i) without ii) with holonomic tucking constraints allowing force generation between the hands and shanks, and iii) with kinematic tucking constraints only prescribing the hand position, without force generation. Incorporating the holonomic tucking constraint enabled the digital twin to pull on its shanks with its hands up to 440 N, replicating the behavior measured in an athlete. This pulling strategy reduced the hip joint torques by 49.52% and 7.69%, respectively, when compared with a condition including kinematic constraints (marker superposition) and a condition without tucking constraint. These findings suggest that incorporating limb-on-limb holonomic constraints enhances the biomechanical accuracy and realism of simulated human movements. Our implementation of limb-on-limb holonomic constraints can be utilized in other simulation contexts, potentially advancing the modeling of complex human motions in sports science, rehabilitation, and robotics.
